Product Backlog 

Problem Statement:
Music applications today are reliant on the user to pick the genre of music that a user wants to listen to. Some users have no idea what type of music would match their moods and this is where My Mood Music comes into play. My Mood Music will take weather, temperature, and the user’s movements into consideration when creating a personalized soundtrack. This will eliminate the idea of user input every time they want to listen to music. 

Background Information:
There are several music applications already in existence, such as, Spotify, Pandora, Grooveshark, etc. These applications give the user some freedom in deciding which genre he or she wants to listen to, but what if a user does not know what genre would fit the mood? Spotify has a feature known as Moodgent which asks the user to input what type of mood they are feeling. The limitation with this feature is that it asks the user to choose one of four very broad moods. My Mood Music, unlike current music applications, allow a user to listen to pre-determined genre that matches his or her environment by using weather, temperature, and the user’s movement. With this, the targeted users can let the application calculate which genre is best for them taking into consideration their likes and dislikes.    

Requirements: 
Functional:
As a user, I would like to create an account.
As a user, I would like to sync my account across devices / platforms.
As a user, I would like the current song to finish before changing genres.
As a developer, I would like the genre to be recalculated 10 seconds before the end of every song. 
As a user, I would like to customise my genre selections. 
As a user, I would like a customisable look and feel. 
As a user, I would like to favorite a song.
As a user, I would like a tutorial of every feature in the application.
As a user, I would like to see how my mood is determined (display the weather and the activity of the person). 
As a user, I would like to choose between displaying Celsius and Fahrenheit. 
As a user, I would like to choose “exercise mode” when I start an exercise.
As a user, I would like to see how much calorie consumed during “exercise mode”.
As a user, I would like to specify how I will get music (from Spotify, Pandora, what I have downloaded, etc.).
As a developer, I would like user feedback. 
As a developer, I would like to check the cellular network/wifi and switch to offline mode if none is found. 
As a developer, I would like users to have the option of changing their password.
As a developer, I would like users to have a secure method of storing Spotify/Pandora usernames and passwords. 
As a developer, I would like users to be able to have a profile picture.
As a developer, I would like to have a two second response time where the application will check the weather, temperature, and the user’s movement.
There can be no noticeable lag between two songs without skipping as this would cause frustration and disappointment among users.
Must come up with a reasonable listing of genres for each type of weather paired with temperature. (i.e. Raining and hot, raining and comfortable, snowing and cold, snowing and freezing, etc.)
Have an acceptable list of genres that would be paired with activity level: stationary, walking, jogging, and running.
As a developer, I want to only allow a user 3 skips when they are using music apps.
As a user, I would like to skip any amount of songs when I am listening to my own songs.
As a user, I want there to be no noticeable lag between songs if I have decided to skip a song, even if I decide to use all skips available to me at once.
As a user, I would like to be able to pause a song and come back to the same song as long as I don’t close the application, upon closing my mood would be recalibrated once they re-opened.
As a user, I would like all of my accounts connected stored securely (usernames and passwords).
As a user, I would like there to be a way for me to locate my password and username if I have forgotten it in a secure manner.
As a user, I would like to have several playlist for different occasions.
As a user, I would want to be able to “like” a song and come back to it.
As a user, I would like to not have to unlock my phone when I want to “like”, skip or pause the song playing.
As a user, I would like to be able to easily view the songs I have “liked”.
As a user, I would like to not have to listen to commercials while I am listening to music (If time allows)

Non- Functional:
We must be able to play this app on an android device.
We must be able to play this app on an Apple device (If time allows).
The interface needs to be simple so that anyone can use it and a user wouldn’t have to go through a complicated process to do something.
The system must handle 100 users at once.
The amount of allowable downtime per month is one hour.
Must be able to integrate with Spotify.
Must be able to integrate with Google music (If time allows)
Must be able to integrate with Pandora (If time allows)
Must be able to integrate with Amazon Music (If time allows)
Must be able to integrate with GrooveShark (If time allows)
Must be able to locate music on device.
Must be able to integrate with Yahoo! Weather to know what the weather is that day.
Must be able to use GPS in order to calculate activity level (stationary, walking, jogging, running) 




